# text-mining

Please read the [instructions](instructions.md).

1. Project Overview:
I used two books' introductions from Wekipedia as my data sources, "Harry Potter" and "Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them". These two books have the same background setting and tell the same story but on different points of the timeline. So I want to analyze the most frequent words appear in each text and how similar these two texts are to provide an impression for new readers. The techniques I used are: Characterizing by Word Frequencies, Computing Summary Statistics, and Text Similarity.

2. Implementation:
I first read in the two texts from Wekipedia as strings, and then break it out into words, and return a dictionary that shows the number of times each word appears in the text. In this part, dictionary is a good tool to count the words. By sortting the dictionary, I can get the most frequently appeared word in the beggining of the dictionary and have a brief understanding of the important words that can lead us to the main topic of the book. 
After doing these, I found that the most frequently appeared words are often meaningless, such as "the", "a", and so on. Instead of keeping these words and find important words down through the result, I choose to remove these meaningless words from the dictionary. So the final result dictionary that counts the words appeared in the text would mainly include only meaningful words. 
Later on, to clearlier see the main topic of the book, I choose to only print out the top 10 frequently appeared words. Instead of returning these words in a string, I choose to return a list that includes both of the word and the number of times it appear. In this way, readers can have a better sense of the level of importance of each words. Also, the printed out result is more self-explainable. 
Finally, I compared the similarity between the two texts to show how much they relate to each other. By analyzing purely the similarity of articles, and sorted articles, and the article only containing nonrepeatable words, I can provide the result to readers and let them decide whether to read both books or only choose one if they are highly similar. 

3. Results:
The top ten words appear in the book Harry Potter and the frequncies of each word are: [('harry', 205), ('potter', 143), ('children', 36), ('voldemort', 32), ('hogwarts', 27), ('death', 24), ('stone', 23), ('school', 22), ('philosopher', 19), ('world', 18)]
The top ten words appear in the book Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them and the frequncies of each word are: [('beasts', 29), ('newt', 27), ('fantastic', 25), ('potter', 19), ('opening', 18), ('harry', 17), ('magical', 13), ('tina', 12), ('graves', 
12), ('credence', 12)]
From the top 10 frequency of words, we can see that the main charater in "Harry Potter" is called Harry Potter, and the main character in the other book is called Newt, but the Potter family is important throughout the whole story. From the word "opening", we can conclude that "Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them" is at the earlier point on the timeline. Both of them have the theme of magic, but "Harry Potter" is more suitable for children than the other one. Also, "Harry Potter is more famous since "world" apears frequently. "Harry Potter" tells a story mainly focus on students and people, whereas the other books focuses more on beasts. Other than the magic theme, these two books have a sense of terror due to words like "death" and "graves".
After comparing the two texts, I found that the similarity of them after converting to sets is much higher than in the original form (increased from 2% to 58%). However, the original similarity ratio and the sorted similarity ratio are similar to each other (2% and 1%). I think this might because the way to decribe the story is different for the two texts, but the main traits and symbols are similar. Although the main characters are introduced in different ways, they are closely related in the two books. 
Moreover, we can see from the similarity results that these two books' content overlap not too much. The prequel only covers about half of key components of the sequel. So if the reader is interested in the topic of magic and philosiphy of mortality, it would be worth to read both series. 

4. Reflection:
Analyzing the frequency of words in the text using dictionary went well. I found it is a great tool to map out the words count and also a easy way to show a brief summary to the text. Returning the whole sorted ditionary in a function, and then coverting it to a list and filter the first 10 pairs also went well. I think it is a good way to further analyze a dictionary by filtering the pairs needed and showing in a list. Since both of the two books I found are also films, so when I read in the source form Wekipedia, there might be some content is mixed of both introduction page of book and of film. I would be better if the film is named differently. By analyzing the introduction in the Wekipedia, it is limit to summary and compare the full content of the two books. To text the result more accurately, I can analyze the content of the whole book. 